# Approach

## C++ or Blueprint ?

I prefer to use C++ mainly, but I understand why many people use Blueprints. They require less programming knowledge and allow faster iteration since there is no need to rebuild and recompile the project after each modification.
- However, I think we can take advantage of the full potential of Unreal Engine by using C++. Blueprints are built on top of Unreal's systems and are very useful, but some simple features can require many nodes and connections compared to writing a few lines of code.
- It's easier to maintain a clean project with code rather than having many large Blueprint graphs with multiple nodes and links. Code organization, refactoring, and debugging also feel more natural to me.
- Also [Epic](https://www.unrealengine.com/news/the-road-to-ue-6) has announced that Blueprints may be deprecated in the future and that Verse scripting could take their place as a replacement, so it might be a good habit to rely more on code when working with Unreal Engine.
Nonetheless, mixing both approaches can be a good solution, and I am not against using Blueprints when they are more convenient, especially for quick iterations, visual elements, or features that do not require complex logic.

[Clair Obscur 33](https://www.polygon.com/clair-obscur-expedition-33-gdc-panel/)

## Technical

- Drone inheritate from `Pawn`. Pawn is the base class of all actors that can be possessed by players or AI. 
- I didn't not choose `Character` since i'm not coding a Human like character with built-in movement logic.
- I was using `Static Meshes` at first, but I wanted to discover how I could integrate a free model, so I switched to `Skeletal Mesh` since the asset was provided in this format.
- `UFloatingPawnMovement` is used to handle the drone movement. It contains parameters such as acceleration, deceleration, and maximum speed, which allow us to control how the drone moves. Works with `AddMovementInput()`.
- I chose `SpringArm` because, for a third-person view, it is a better solution. It can handle situations where the camera could go through or get stuck inside walls by automatically adjusting the camera distance when there is a collision. And it can also provide a "lag" effect for better immersion.


```cpp
ADrone::ADrone()
{
	// Set this pawn to call Tick() every frame.  You can turn this off to improve performance if you don't need it.
	PrimaryActorTick.bCanEverTick = true;
	AutoPossessPlayer = EAutoReceiveInput::Player0;

	SkeletalMesh = CreateDefaultSubobject<USkeletalMeshComponent>("SkeletalMesh");
	RootComponent = SkeletalMesh;

	Movement = CreateDefaultSubobject<UFloatingPawnMovement>("Movement");
	SpringArm = CreateDefaultSubobject<USpringArmComponent>("SpringArm");

	SpringArm->SetupAttachment(SkeletalMesh);
	SpringArm->TargetArmLength = 500.f;
	SpringArm->bEnableCameraLag = true;
	SpringArm->CameraLagSpeed = 5.f;

	Camera = CreateDefaultSubobject<UCameraComponent>("Camera");
	Camera->SetupAttachment(SpringArm);

	Movement->MaxSpeed = DefaultMaxSpeed;

}
```

- I used `Unreal Enhanced Input`, so I created an `Input Mapping Context` that maps each key to an `Input Action`. Then, I created two Input Actions to define the type of value they receive: a Vector3 for drone movement and a Vector2 for camera movement.

```cpp
void ADrone::SetupPlayerInputComponent(UInputComponent* PlayerInputComponent)
{
	Super::SetupPlayerInputComponent(PlayerInputComponent);

	if (UEnhancedInputComponent* EnhancedInput = Cast<UEnhancedInputComponent>(PlayerInputComponent))
	{
		EnhancedInput->BindAction(MoveAction, ETriggerEvent::Triggered, this, &ADrone::Move);
		EnhancedInput->BindAction(LookAction, ETriggerEvent::Triggered, this, &ADrone::Look);
	}
}

void ADrone::BeginPlay()
{
	Super::BeginPlay();

	if (APlayerController* PC = Cast<APlayerController>(Controller))
	{
		if (UEnhancedInputLocalPlayerSubsystem* Subsystem = ULocalPlayer::GetSubsystem<UEnhancedInputLocalPlayerSubsystem>(PC->GetLocalPlayer()))
		{
			Subsystem->AddMappingContext(DroneMappingContext, 0);
		}
	}
}
```

- The values generated by each `Input Action` are used to control the drone's movement and camera rotation.
```cpp
void ADrone::Move(const FInputActionValue& Value)
{
	FVector MovementVector = Value.Get<FVector>();

	FVector Forward = Camera->GetForwardVector();
	FVector Right = Camera->GetRightVector();

	AddMovementInput(Forward, MovementVector.X);
	AddMovementInput(Right, MovementVector.Y);
	AddMovementInput(FVector::UpVector, MovementVector.Z);
}

void ADrone::Look(const FInputActionValue& Value)
{
	FVector2D LookAxis = Value.Get<FVector2D>();
	FRotator Rotation = SpringArm->GetRelativeRotation();

	Rotation.Pitch += -LookAxis.Y * LookSpeed;
	Rotation.Yaw += LookAxis.X * LookSpeed;

	Rotation.Pitch = FMath::Clamp(Rotation.Pitch, -80.f, 80.f);

	SpringArm->SetRelativeRotation(Rotation);
}
```

## And AI ?

### Usage

- I used AI to get a first impression of what I would need to code my drone. I explained that I was coming from Unity and already knew the basics of movement systems.
- I asked it to list the components I would need and their equivalents in Unity, if they existed.
- I used the basic and free version of ChatGPT. It advised me to use `UFloatingPawnMovement` and `USpringArmComponent`.

### Result
- Then, I watched some videos about basic movement and input actions. After that, I read the documentation for these components on Epic's documentation.
- When I thought I was ready, I started implementing the system and discovering the methods provided by these classes.
- Finally, I used AI only for the controller part since it was the purpose of the test. For the speed boost and VFX, I wanted to discover and implement them by myself.

### Conclusion
- The `controller` part was completed in roughly `1 hour`, and the `speed boost` and `VFX` were also completed in around 1 hour.
- Since I consider myself a junior developer, I prefer to learn by making mistakes, reading documentation, searching, and testing by myself because I think knowledge is stored better in my brain this way.
- Nonetheless, I also know that AI can provide huge efficiency and productivity improvements. The biggest challenge for me is learning how to use it wisely. Not using AI at all can lead to lower productivity, while relying on it too much during the learning process may prevent building strong fundamentals.



